+++
title = "Senior Software Engineer"
date = 2021-12-06

[extra]
location = "Melbourne"
locality = "remote"
company = "Art Processors"
start_date = "2021-12-06"
end_date = "2024-11-21"

skills = [
"Rust", "Python", "TypeScript", "C#",
".net", "AWS", "BrightScript", "BrightSign",
"TouchDesigner", "MAX MSP", "Audio Engineering",
"SMPTE", "Embedded Systems", "Research and Development",
"Communication", "Collaboration", "Team Management"
]
[[extra.achievements]]
description = "Lead Engineer bringing Pladia Live Sync to market"
[[extra.achievements]]
description = "Innovated core communications services for Live Sync"
[[extra.achievements]]
description = "Worked collaboratively to bring Live Sync to Museums and Live events"
[[extra.achievements]]
description = "Lead several R&D projects in the exhibition design space"

+++

As a senior software engineer at Art Processors, a global experiential design and technology company, I used my problem-solving and critical thinking skills to deliver practical solutions.
In this role, I demonstrated my ability as a team player, engaging in conversations to support clients' and visitors' visions for meaningful interactions with arts and cultural institutions.
This role was instrumental in my growth as a leader, empowering me to take initiative, present ideas, and contribute to the global arts and cultural landscape.
Career highlights include curating experiences for the Bob Dylan Center (Tulsa, USA), MONA (Hobart, Australia), and National Museum of Australia and establishing AV Event Sync for Pladia.


# Virtual Queueing System - Taste of Summer, Hobart
*December 2021*

The **Taste of Summer Festival** is Australia's longest-running food and drink festival. Held annually at Hobart's Salamanca Place, it celebrates Tasmania's top eateries, breweries, distilleries, and wineries. Art processes were tasked with creating a virtual queuing system to mitigate in-person queuing for the event.

More information [https://www.artprocessors.net/projects/taste-of-summer](https://web.archive.org/web/20240619061815/https://www.artprocessors.net/projects/taste-of-summer)

## Contributing to its success by developing an innovative virtual ticketing tool by:
 - Developing a Rust-based microservice architecture for the 2021 Taste of Summer Festival, delivering a real-time virtual queueing system to manage COVID-safe entry to venues.
 - Collaborating with cross-functional teams to integrate backend frameworks and user-friendly front-end functionality, delivering a reliable solution within a tight four-week timeline.
 - Utilising TypeScript to develop an intuitive front-end service, enabling event staff to manage the software for patron entry and exit efficiently.
 - Demonstrating technical expertise in Rust and TypeScript and strong teamwork, problem-solving, and time management skills, prioritising user experience and safety while ensuring compliance with public health guidelines.
 - Instilling attendee confidence by creating a platform that met safety requirements and supported a smooth, COVID-compliant event experience.


# Bob Dylan Center - Live Sync Audio/Visual synchronisation technology museum exhibit –Tulsa, OK.
*January—May 2022*

Played a key role in designing a one-of-a-kind visitor experience for [Bob Dylan Center](https://bobdylancenter.com/), blending interactive museum displays with immersive audio features, including a virtual jukebox showcasing the creative journey of a legendary artist. The project was coordinated with many stakeholders, including the museum curator’s in Tulsa, Oklahoma, USA and project lead 59 Productions in London, UK.

For more information [https://www.artprocessors.net/projects/bob-dylan-center](https://web.archive.org/web/20240619065412/https://www.artprocessors.net/projects/bob-dylan-center)

## Summary
 - Developed and implemented a **Rust-based** audio/visual synchronisation service utilising **NTP** to ensure precise alignment across visitor devices and museum exhibition objects.
 - Designed and documented a custom **WebSocket** protocol from the ground up, implemented in multiple programming languages, with system architecture visualised through UML diagrams.
 - Integrated synchronisation technology for various exhibition components, including BrightSign Players (**BrightScript**), Unity applications (**C# DLLs**), and bespoke UDP datagram protocols via a **C# translation layer**.
 - Collaborated across time zones with contractors in Tulsa and London to integrate synchronisation protocols into third-party solutions effectively.
 - Deployed on-site solutions using remote orchestration tools for streamlined installation and ongoing management.



# ‘Decoded’ exhibition - National Museum of Australia
*January—February 2022*

Developed an interactive multiplayer game and layered audiovisual storytelling for the Australian Signals Directorate’s 75th Anniversary exhibition for [National Museum of Australia](https://www.nma.gov.au/exhibitions/decoded), showcasing ASD's history, missions, and cyber operations. Included mobile integration for extended narratives and post-visit engagement, enhancing visitor immersion and education.

For more information, [https://www.artprocessors.net/projects/national-museum-australia-decoded](https://web.archive.org/web/20240619082738/https://www.artprocessors.net/projects/national-museum-australia-decoded)

## Unity Game Deployment Support
 - Built a CI/CD pipeline for deploying a Unity-based interactive game as part of the Australian Signals Directorate’s 75th Anniversary exhibition.
 - Utilised AWS S3 for secure artefact storage and automated deployment to on-site Windows systems via PowerShell scripting, ensuring seamless integration with the museum’s network.

# ‘From the Sails: Light Years’ - Sydney Opera House 50th anniversary October 2022
Delivered "From the Sails: Light Years," a 17-minute documentary projected on the Sydney Opera House sails for its 50th anniversary. Using live-sync audio technology, visitors accessed the soundtrack via a QR code, eliminating the need for an app. This award-winning project set a new standard for immersive cultural experiences.

For more information, [https://www.artprocessors.net/projects/sydney-opera-house-from-the-sails-light-years](https://web.archive.org/web/20240705041319/https://www.artprocessors.net/projects/sydney-opera-house-from-the-sails-light-years)

## Time-crunched contract made easy
 - Great team work across Front-end, Back-end, DevOps utilising the strength of team-members to re-implement visitor facing React PWA
 - Re-purposing C# based UDP relay to bridge the Sydney Opera House Projection system to the Rust-based Live Sync infrastructure.
 - Work with the team on-site at Sydney Opera House to integrate the synchronisation bridge and supporting them in the running of the event.
 - The results of the improvements to the Live Sync system led to several more shows, including [Robin Fox Laser Show](https://whatson.cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au/events/icon-laser-show) and [drone shows](https://agbcreative.com/projects/noel-sydney/) across several events.

# AP Labs ‘Spatial Audio’ - Research and Development
*August—May 2023*

Research and development a side-project investigating outdoor spatial audio solutions

## Summary
Investigating audio spatialisation algorithms to create dynamic soundscapes in outdoor exhibitions. Implementing a proof of concept Spatial Audio Engine in Rust capable of calculating hundreds of channels simultaneously.

## Technology
Rust, Max/MSP

# Mona Library Phase 1 - Lead Engineer of Research and Development
*April—July 2023*

Contributed to the research and development of AI-driven book locating technology for MONA's new library, focused on creating an innovative search system for David Walsh’s extensive collection. Tasked with exploring alternatives to the traditional Dewey Decimal system, the project aimed to reimagine how visitors find and interact with books, utilizing AI tools to enhance the library experience.

## Summary
 - Led investigations into the initial stages of the MONA Library project, focusing on inventory tracking technology and advanced vision systems for AI/ML applications.
 - Conducted research on cutting-edge technologies, including NFC, AI/ML, and vision systems, to develop innovative solutions for book identification and location tracking.
 - Implemented and supervised the development of proofs of concept for unique book identification and precise location pinpointing, including bookshelf mapping.
 - Collaborated with design and fit-out teams, engaging with architects to present options and ensure alignment with the project's vision.
 - Produced clear, detailed reports to communicate findings and recommendations, ensuring project goals were met effectively.

# Art Processors Labs ‘iPod Touch replacement’ — Research and Development
*August—October 2023*

Led investigations into in-house device replacements for MONA’s O app, the interactive map used by visitors. The project aimed to phase out iPod Touch devices and ensure sustainability by reducing reliance on third-party equipment, providing a cost-effective and reliable solution for long-term use and in-house maintenance.

## Summary
 - Led research into alternative location tracking options for personalised exhibition tours and audio guides, ensuring alignment with client, visitor, and system needs.
 - Developed embedded programming solutions using Bluetooth range-finding algorithms to replicate functionality of in-house iPod Touch devices used in museums.
 - Prioritised user-friendly design to enhance the visitor experience, ensuring systems met intended purposes.
 - Implemented solutions with Nordic nRF52, C++, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and WebSockets for seamless location-based services.

## Technology
Nordic nrf52, C++, Wifi, Bluetooth, WebSockets

# Event Sync - Productisation of Live Sync
*March—October 2024*

Led the adaptation of Event Sync, initially developed for the Bob Dylan Center and Sydney Opera House projects, into Pladia Event Sync, a product now available globally. This seamless AV synchronisation technology was refined through high-profile projects, ensuring flawless integration of visuals and audio. Pladia Event Sync now enables a range of events to effortlessly blend physical and digital spaces, offering a versatile solution for immersive experiences across various industries and locations.

## Summary
 - Envisioned and led the productisation of the live sync solution (originally developed for the Bob Dylan Center) into a self-managed SaaS product with minimal engineering support.
 - Presented the concept to cross-functional teams, including front-end, sales, and communications, to establish a cohesive approach.
 - Streamlined deployment processes, implementing a multi-tenant PWA (TypeScript and React on AWS S3) solution that reduced the sales-implementation turnaround from 2 weeks to 2 days.
 - Implemented new A/V integrations for live sync, simplifying on-site setup for customers.
 - Developed integrations including UDP messages, SMPTE LTC (Timecode), and manual triggering. Integrating them in a Rust-based component into an electron based desktop application available on both macOS and Windows systems.


# Pipeline Optimisation ‘Digital Object Labels’
*May 2024*

National Museum of Australia support work. CMS Pipeline was slow and caused the client to have a hard time adding and editing objects in their collection. The pipeline is a large collection of AWS Lambda functions all triggered from an external Content Management System.

## Summary
 - Reverse-engineered CMS pipeline solution to identify steps for optimisation, ensuring no disruption to customers during implementation.
 - Mapped out the full system, identifying and fixing several areas of poor performance.
 - Reduced average pipeline run-time from over an hour to around a minute.
 - Used **Python** to implement and deploy performance improvements efficiently.


# Cost Reduction: Amazon Web Services
*June—July 2024*

## Summary
Reduced company wide AWS costs by roughly 30% saving the company and in turn customers money.

## Technology
AWS, Cost Explorer
